---
layout: post
title: '2023 Recap: Movies'
date: 2023-12-20 09:37 -0800
categories:
- Recap
img_path: "../../assets/img/"
image:
  path: templateHeaders/movies.jpg
  alt: A line of DVDs on a library shelf
---
My goal in 2023 was to watch 30 movies, and near as I can tell, I've done it. It's slightly tricky because I watched one movie twice, and watched a couple of films I'd seen before (marked below with a *), but the year's not over yet, and I'm calling it a win. 

Below is the list of movies I've seen this year, very roughly sorted by how much I enjoyed them (least favorite at the top, favorite at the bottom). Commentary included for select movies.

* **Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me**
*The first was fun and fresh, and stood alone. This threw out everything the first movie did and was more reliant on references and gross-out humor.*

* **The Darjeeling Limited**
* **Banshees of Inisherin**
* **Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy (2011)**
* **Babylon 5: The Gathering***
*I'd seen this before, and while I love the worldbuilding, the acting is not excellent!*

* **The old Man and the Gun**
* **Rise of the Guardians**
* **Clone Wars (2008)**
* **The Bourne Ultimatum**
* **Muppet Treasure Island**
* **Barbie** *This felt like a (much) better version of the Lego Movie, which I really didn't like.*

* **Venom**
*Similar to Sonic the Hedgehog, I'd heard this movie was terrible and had low expectations. It was remarkably fine, and I enjoyed it more than I expected to!*

* **Guardians of the Galaxy 3**
* **Black Widow**
*This was another film I'd heard was bad, but really enjoyed. The first two acts were a legitimately exciting spy thriller, and I wish they'd had the guts to make a spy thriller that happened to feature super heroes. Still enjoyable!*

* **Sonic the Hedgehog 2**
* **The Woman in Black (2012)**
* **Jingle all the way**
* **Clueless**
* **The French Dispatch**
* **Kiss Kiss Bang Bang***
*I used to consider this among my favorite movies, but something about this rewatch didn't quite click for me as much.*

* **Everything Everywhere All At Once**
*I had the opposite of the Sonic problem with this one —— I'd heard from so many people that it was amazing, I had slightly too high of expectations.*

* **Tick, Tick... BOOM!**
* **The Muppet Christmas Carol***
* **Sonic the Hedgehog**
*I heard this film was bad, and went in expecting a 5/10. It was a solid 7, and I commend that.*

* **Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery**
* **12 Angry Men (1957)***
* **Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem**
*A fresh take on the 'turds' (as my mom insists on calling them), emphasizing how teenage they truly are. My wife isn't a Turtles fan and she loved this one. I am, and so did I.*

* **Double Indemnity**
* **Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse** (x2)
* **Good Will Hunting**
*I was gifted this film on VHS over a decade ago and never watched it. I'm not sure I would have liked it as much then. Watching it now, I cried at least twice. Excellent movie.*

* **Bad Times at the El Royale**
*I'd never heard of this, but am a fan of Drew Goddard (Cabin the Woods, Buffy). It was a really fun film!*

* **The Grand Budapest Hotel**
*My first Wes Anderson film, and so completely unlike any other movie I've ever seen. What a fun ride, start to finish!*
