---
layout: post
title: '2023 Recap: TV'
categories:
- Recap
img_path: "../../assets/img/"
image:
  path: templateHeaders/tvheader.jpg
  alt: 'A gray wall of stereo equipment. In the middle, one burst of color: a television tuned to a dead channel'
date: 2023-12-20 13:56 -0800
---
I'm not very good at watching TV shows, but there's been quite a few recommended to me, and I try to make my way through them.

Below is a rough ordering (from least favorite to most enjoyed) of TV (and Dropout.tv) shows I watched at least some of this year. Selected commentary included. Many of these I only watched a few episodes of.

* **Medici** *When I watched The Tudors, one of my favorite parts was reading about the events portrayed and seeing how accurate the show was. As far as I could tell, most of this show was made up. Still a fun watch, for the couple of episodes I saw.*

* **Dimension 20: Fantasy High** (Sophomore Year)
* **The Muppet Show**(1968)
* **Futurama**  (Season 8) *The old charm isn't quite here.*
* **Um, Actually** *This one has slowly grown on me.*

* **Prison Break**(Season 1) *Good gravy was this show violent! I expected a reverse heist, and we did get that, but also a lot of violence committed by people who act like 'crap' is a terrible swear. It was very clear how and when they were budging against the censors here.*

* **Star Wars: The Clone Wars**
* **Brooklyn 99** *I watched the first season or two of this while terribly sick, and it got some good laughs out of me.*

* **Only Murders In The Building** (Season 3)
* **Dimension 20: Fantasy High** (Season 1)
* **Make Some Noise**
* **Scrubs** (Season 3)
* **Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles**
* **Dimension 20: Of Mice and Murders**
* **Dimension 20: Mentopolis**
* **Game Changer**
* **Jury Duty**
* **Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur** *I laughed, I cried. I was very sick while watching this. That cartoon dino is so dang expressive. I loved this show.*
